# Diving into French Presidential Discourses

## Introduction
The fragmentation of political opinions has formed a focal point of political analysis and concern for democratic debates. As is evident in the debate pre-empting the French Presidential election 2022: the encroachment towards parliaments and executives by extreme right-wing parties, and the new inflammatory nature of debates on climate change and migration, characterise political debate is in disarray, with no solid basis and common departing point. Whilst Emmanuel Macron, the centrist incumbent president seeks to put forward a politics of moderate continuity, the right had mobilised around migratory waves, judging France to be on the brink of losing its integrity. The Left has contrastingly sought to redirect attention towards social issues, with limited success. Whilst polarisation must be taken seriously as a threat to democracy, subjects which appear non-controversial, remain highly political and potentially more constitutive of substantial debate. Using locally-trained word embedding models, trained on specific candidates’ twitter-discourses and their manifestos, we capture the politically determined particularities of these corpora that coalesce around shared tokens. We explicitly scrutinise ubiquitous and universal concepts as tokens imbued with meaning and reframed by candidates, by qualitatively analysing the word-vectors most proximate to these concepts in the corpora. Thus, we uncover what subtly, more genuinely, and potentially politically decisively differentiates candidates. Beyond classic topics such as the nation, the economy, and the digital, we analyse the underlying political assumptions that are palpable in what political candidates imply and appeal to in their campaigns. Indeed, they activate latent ontological assumptions, which are held ambivalently by the public.

## Background and Context

### The French Presidential Campaign
Since the 2017 French presidential elections, the France political landscape has undergone huge structural changes, disrupting the decades-old quasi two-party system (J. Evans & Ivaldi, 2017). This went hand in hand with a coalescence of parties around two main poles, on two dimensions. The first and dominating dimension sets an anti-immigration-authoritarian pole against a pro-immigration-liberal pole; the second pits an ecologist-interventionist pole against a productivist-neoliberal pole (Gougou & Persico, 2017). Since then the French political landscape has retained its polarity, whilst growing considerably more complex, therefore necessitating an open approach to its interpretation (König & Waldvogel, 2021). Nevertheless, immigration has retained its status as a central topic of the current, 2022, presidential campaign (partially shadowed by the war in Ukraine). However, it is paramount to reconsider topical salience, such as that of immigration, as rooted in generally shared sentiment and rationalities. Instead, such sentiments are often portrayed as inflated (Dennison & Geddes, 2019). Moreover, such securitization of discourse further stifles potential debate on certain issues pertinent to quotidian public life such as concerns on labour, participation in statehood, and democratic representation (Jendrissek, 2013; Mavelli, 2013). Indeed these run the not being debated in depth or adequately considered (Gattinara & Morales, 2017). A holistic understanding of the effects of fragmentation is of particular urgency as they have fed into concrete policy, with disproportionate and incoherent policy responses being formulated especially with regards to migration (Bove et al., 2021).

### Making Sense of Meaning
In order to come to terms with the ambiguity of meaning from a quantitative perspective, it first has to be formalised. Discourse is indeed indicative of normative political assumptions, resonant with fundamental political concerns: an ethics of statehood and citizenship. Its implied politics are future-oriented, value-laden, subject-shaping rationality (as inspired by Bear, 2014; Graeber, 2013; Hay, 2006; Jeffrey & Dyson, 2020). This is a politically inspired methodological and epistemological choice, which distances us from more realist and predictive approaches to politics (see for example Dahl, 1957; Gerring & Yesnowitz, 2006). As such, it also differs from more common epistemologies of data science. The measurement of meaning has been introduced to the numeric via sociology. Sociologists formalised the interpretive approaches of anthropology (Geertz, 1966; Mohr, 1998). Culture thereby remained an open system that was invariably linked to practice or real-life experiences (Mohr, 2000). Cognitive anthropology has further enhanced this approach, highlighting the importance of ambiguous meaning in semi-propositional beliefs. These are notions assumed to be known, whilst in actuality being continuously interpreted (for example that of “the economy”) (Sperber, 1982). American Sociology has since made use of computational methods to analyse large corpora of text and discover otherwise unnoticed patterns (J. A. Evans & Aceves, 2016). This approach remains contentious as it considers text to be culturally exhaustive and all telling, instead of considering “language to be more than words” (Smith, 2020) thus approaching a pre-theorized or undertheorized sociality. In other words, the appeal to grasp meaning is lost and beyond associating cultural categories or pre-conceptualised patterns of communication, as has been pointed out by Lenci (2018) from a linguistic perspective. Retaining the openness, nuance of meaning, as well as that of politics, will remain a central concern for us in order to fully grasp the political relevance, and breadth of debate that coalesces around neutral seeming words. 

### Secrets of Data Science
Data science does offer certain possibilities through which to capture meaning in its pertinent ambiguity. As Smith (2020) outlines, considering words as distributional vectors refines the meanings of words as based on context. These can produce “intuitive results […] useful for the cultural analyst” when emerging from a specific embedding space(Stoltz and Taylor, 2021: 4). Indeed, word-embeddings have already been widely used to uncover latent ideological difference in political language (Bonikowski et al., 2021; Rheault & Cochrane, 2020) or uncover shifting cultural meanings of categories such as class and race (Kozlowski et al., 2019). Milbauer et al (2021) similarly scrutinise the latent polarisation in Reddit groups by aligning the corpora of different subreddits.  They render inconsistencies in the corpora’s structure visible (as misalignments), and thereby the latent area of polarisation and the “cultural value” that this betrays. Here, wariness must be retained as generative models of language do not necessarily represent the functioning of natural language (Khalife et al., 2021) nor the inherent unpredictability of politics (Hay, 2006). As such, there is an epistemological limitation regarding the extent to which findings can be considered an encapsulation of meaning, which is intelligible with a broader “culture”. This pertains to broader unclarities regarding the limits and potentials of “interpretability” in the discipline of data science (Desai et al., 2022). Findings of social nature are often falsely related to realist epistemologies (Boyd & Crawford, 2012) despite algorithms’ deployment as technical objects, rather than epistemic objects subject to proofs (Lowrie, 2017). Retaining the meaning as embedded within distributional vectors, as well as understanding it as indicative of a broader, complex, inherently social phenomena, must remain central to the accuracy of our deployment of theory and interpretation of our results.

### Motivation of the Research Question
Can one use locally-trained word embeddings to study the different meanings that shared words take for different political actors? Can this analysis provide an insight into the hidden ontological assumptions that sustain political actors' discourses? Our research question, probing towards the different meanings attributed to “imbue-able” and mobilizable concepts depending on political inclination in the French presidential campaign of 2022, emerges both as a politically relevant question in content, methodology, and interpretation of the result. Our motivation is broadly two-pronged. The political urgency to highlight areas of debate in a fragmented campaign, which pertain to substantial, structural political debates and not to the custom face-value click-bait content, is central to understanding the hidden depth of a debate. Moreover, the methodology and interpretation demanded by the political nature of this project, necessitate the ability to encapsulate and hold the indeterminacy of social and especially political phenomena. Thus, the epistemological choices that pertain to the research question inquire into the possibility for the rich epistemology of data science to resonate with the indeterminacy inherent to the epistemology of politics as it is held in social theory. Our research question is thereby  grounded firstly, in an examination of the data science tools of word embeddings as a means of encapsulating political meaning and, secondly, in a scrutiny of the salience of twitter-feeds and manifestos in serving as a corpus through which to train the required “politically meaningful” word embeddings. In our interpretation of the results we expand upon the possibility to relate these findings back to the landscape of the French presidential campaign of 2022, and political discourse more generally. As such this research question and project mark an explicit intervention against “theory-free” data science which has permeated computational sociology and risks imposing regularities, which turn associations into definitive meanings.

## Data and Methods
Twitter served as the primary source of data for this project in being one of the main platforms for contemporary and immediate political debate within the context of the French presidential election 2022. Here, candidates and their affiliates conduct their respective presidential campaigns within the infrastructural possibilities that Twitter offers (280 character long tweets which contain certain responses or impulses to general discourse on the campaign). Twitter lends itself particularly well to this kind of analysis, as it is considered to be a serious and acceptable opinion-sharing platform of semi-official status, in which brief and strongly opinionated comments are accepted, sought out, and taken as a point of reference by the public. Thus, Twitter is generally considered to be a serious intervention in political discourse when used by politicians. Its brevity also induces an emotionally laden usage, (Duncombe, 2019), which can be exploited to extract (political) moral codes (Solomon, 1978). Its immediacy allows us to genuinely capture the political moment (McCormick et al., 2017).   

We create a corpus per candidate which is indicative of their political positioning during the campaign by aggregating their tweets and those of their affiliates as elements of a list. To this, we add the manifestos of the separate candidates, each sentence representing an element of this list. Based on these corpora, we train locally-trained word embeddings, thus analysing the idiosyncrasies across candidates, tapping into their locally attributed meaning (Stoltz & Taylor, 2021: 4). As such our analysis has been conducted on a relatively small corpus, however, its results thereby retain the possibility to be qualitatively interpreted (Dénigot & Burnett, 2021).  

Given the seven list of tweets and of sentences, we use gensim to train the model (Rehurek & Sojka, 2011) and spaCy to help clean the corpus (Honnibal & Montani, 2017). Then we find the most common words in the list of each candidate. After having analysed and selected the key shared words we want to work with, we divide them in five main categories. These categories, and the words we considered in our analysis are:  
- Nation: ‘france’, ‘etat’, ‘souverainete’, ‘president’, ‘politique’, ‘droit’
- Economy: ‘entreprise’, ‘economie’ ‘emploi’, ‘travail’, ‘taxes’
- Digital: ‘numerique’, ‘donnees’, ‘data’
- Hidden ontologies: ‘monde’, ‘realite’, ‘verite’, ‘societe’, ‘pouvoir’, ‘avenir’, ‘histoire’
- Extra: ‘contre’, ‘faut’, ‘crise’ 

These 5 main categories all demonstrate a diverse kind of  analytical purchase, thus relating to different areas and depths of statehood, betraying mutually illuminating more fundamental political norms. The chosen tokens, by not being explicitly politicised in common parlance and lent themselves well to uncovering latent ideology. In the following, we outline this approach.  

**Nation**: This category is an attempt at answering following questions, when interpreting proximate word vectors against broader discourse. Where are the boundaries of the nation drawn and defined through delimiting a national body (Anderson, 1991), identifying and excluding threats (Asad, 2003), and projecting the nation into the future or the past (Mitchell, 2007)? For example, defining the nation as a body based on shared inheritance, carried into the future by children, could be indicative of paternal, conservative politics, premised on the notion of national puitry (Devan, 1997). Here, the specific words, emphasise different aspects of statehood: “france” evoking more cultural associations, whereas “etat” evoked more governmental concepts.  
**Economy**: Similarly, approaching the economy from substantivist point of view (Polanyi, 1944; Çalişkan & Callon, 2009) allows us to read it as system of value, displaying who is considered to be productive, integral to the production of value and salience of the nation and who is deserving of retribution (Bear, 2015; Graeber, 2006). Considering the centrality of the economy in contemporary society (Appel, 2017; Michell, 2007), this betrays which entities are most valued in the national-body.  
**Digital**: In addressing the digital, we focus on a new site of concern where the stakes for political inclinations have not yet been sedimented. However, the present and future threats and possibilities that the digital poses, are of concern to the public (treatment of data and the power of the GAFAM) (Peitsch, 2013; Zuboff, 2019). Privacy, ownership, and sovereignty in the face of transnational private firms (Floridi, 2020), but also innovation and novelty (Irani, 2015) are differently weighted issues, which candidates make a political choice to tap into or not.  
**Hidden Ontologies**: In an exploratory fashion we realised that tokens, which referenced a certain generality (monde, realite), were proximate to word embeddings, which were evocative of that word view. Whilst this is evidently due to expressions such as ”tout le monde'' and “en réalité,” their etymological origins seem to be preserved enough to render results interpretable.   
**Extra**: In the same exploratory fashion, words that required positionality or action similarly betrayed those positions. However this approach remains exploratory and is not grounded in broader social science theory.

## Results

### Nation
#### 'france'
The term “france” is evidently highly weighted by the Right. Éric Zemmour and Marine Le Pen similarly demonstrate a heavily emotional account of nationhood, using different inflections of love and joy in its proximity. Both also associate France with “destin,” a calling of the nation, which teleological dimension allows to naturalise its existence, while underlying its outstanding essence. Marine Le Pen’s discourse stresses the secure and advanced existence of France (regarding the prevalence of  ‘militaire’ and ‘civilization’). Éric Zemmour tends to associate ‘france’ with terms that reference history (‘patrie’, ‘hommage’), its richness (‘pleinement’, ‘prospere’) and a conscious body of ‘compatriotes’, in adequation with how prevalent French atavism is within his overall narrative/idiosyncrasy of his movement. Emmanuel Macron, on the other hand, makes a decisive shift from this discourse. Rather than casting ‘france’ in a culturally active fashion, he emphasises the collegiality (‘amitie’) most likely in reference to the strategies of regional and international cooperation he pursues, within the European Union notably. France is otherwise proximate to notions of industry, technology, indicating a characterisation in terms of integral, stable and forceful notions, yet not inherently French. He thereby draws boundaries, however not in the naturalised fashion of Marine Le Pen and Éric Zemmour. Yannick Jadot explicitly challenges the possibility of France being considered as an hermetic space, associating it in first line with ‘internationaux', as well as rendering the French state porus by putting in tandem with the notion of ‘refugie’ and “asile”.
[france.pdf](https://github.com/essemmeppi/diving-into-french-presidential-discourses/files/8441173/france.pdf)

#### 'souverainete'
Whilst certain issues of general interest to the presidential candidacy pervade the debate (e.g. ‘alimentaire’ is a token found across most discourses relating to sovereignty), sovereignty is surrounded by words on the state’s control, the fashion thereof and the imposions against it. Marine Le Pen embedding is especially telling, revealing consistency between words such as ‘frontieres', ‘mondialisation', and ‘immigraton’, which are telling of an independence sought in distance.  Moreover, the anomalous usage of the term ‘renoncement’ is indicative of a loss. She equally grounds sovereignty in hard-existences of statehood, such as ‘energetique. ‘industrie',  ‘armee', and ‘nucleaire',. She is not alone in doing so, however references this concreteness much more than her rival Valérie Pécresse. Also on the right, Valérie Pécresse contrastingly emphasises more conceptual notions (‘enjeu', ‘pilier', ‘produire', ‘defense',)  when speaking about sovereignty as well as more fluid notions of the constitution of the nation such as ‘entreprises’, which also go beyond the French state’s borders (e.g. ‘europeens’). Looking at Yannick Jadot, we note that the left similarly mobilises sovereignty in relation to issues of concern that they consider important. As a green candidate, Yannick Jadot mobilises sovereignty to consider the power of France regarding his topics of interest (‘energetique’ ‘fossiles’ ‘activiste’). Otherwise, Yannick Jadot characterise sovereignty as with terms of agency, activity and change (‘impact’ ‘contribuent’ ‘engageons’’), in contrast to Emmanuel Macron, who grounds sovereignty in more stately terms (‘regulation’ ‘stabilite‘ ‘union’ ‘strategie’). Indeed, Emmanuel Macron deployment of sovereignty strikes precisely this balance between hard stateliness, in concepts and action, yet at the same time casts it against issues of concern and moderness (‘transitions', ‘technologie’), potentially indicative of his status as incumbent president.
[souverainete.pdf](https://github.com/essemmeppi/diving-into-french-presidential-discourses/files/8441188/souverainete.pdf) 

### Economy
#### 'economie'
By engaging with the term economy, candidates not only display who they consider to be relevant in creating value, but also the extent to which they agree with the current capitalist system of value, and the implied form of valued labour and action. Valérie Pécresse plays into this by premising ‘dette’ as the word most associated with the economy. As such we can take note of the centrality of the economy in its own terms, rather than a means to an end to be inherent to her politics. Emmanuel Macron rather replicates the centrality of the economy, however this is evident in his usage of words which reference the functionality of the economy and thereby don’t put it into question (‘croissance', ‘dynamisme', ‘taux', ‘rapidement',). Whilst ‘crise’ could indicate a danger that the economy is in, it is evident in terms such as ‘excellence’ and ‘fruits’ that the economy is a positive structuring force for Emmanuel Macron. Jean-Luc Mélenchon’s discourse takes distance from this, putting new objects in relation to economy (‘syndicats', ‘terre', ‘financiers’). By explicitly mentioning human institutions, he renders the economy made and enacted, not just a neutral procedure of the state. In speaking about ‘besoins’ and ‘consummation’ Jean-Luc Mélenchon highlights not just the productive side of the economy, but its tangibility and reality as a circulation of value with an end goal of usage. If indicative of a normative shift, it is unique to Jean-Luc Mélenchon. Yannick Jadot as the green candidate evidently mentions the intersection on the planet and the economy, however interestingly this leads him to speak about the economy in very defining, strong and fixed terms (‘robuste', ‘resiliente', ‘reorienter', ‘instaurer, ‘imperatif’). As such the economy appears as a fixed and directable way for change and control, a different approach from Valérie Pécresse, Emmanuel Macron and Jean-Luc Mélenchon.
[economie.pdf](https://github.com/essemmeppi/diving-into-french-presidential-discourses/files/8441302/economie.pdf)

### Digital
#### 'numerique'
As an area of society which appears to be still in the making, yet defining in terms of current societal issues, “the digital” produces diverse results, in the different word embeddings of candidates. Éric Zemmour ricochets between social novelties and tech-savviness (‘cryptomonnaise', ’buzz', ‘tweeters’ and ‘domaine’), a quotian usage (‘communication’) as well as its existence as an  ‘enquiet.’ Notably, the digital seems to be more an edgy novelty to be considered. Valérie Pécresse, contrastingly, sees the digital as an (economic) potential to be regulated and used (‘talents', ‘metier’, ‘creation', ‘administration’). As such, caution is exercised, however, in relation to the digital impingement on state and economy. On the left issues that could pertain to people’s existence are centred. Both Jean-Luc Mélenchon and Yannick Jadot talk about ‘donnees’, which mainly relate to user concerns. Jean-Luc Mélenchon, further relates the digital to it to broader economic structures ‘banque’ and to its physical infrastructure ('satellite’ and potentially ‘maritime’). This broader contextualisation more materially grounds the digital in society allowing it to be read through a politics other than economics. Yannick Jadot is more conceptual is his treatment of the digital the Jean-Luc Mélenchon (‘sobriete', ‘anticipation’, and ‘respectueuse’). Nevertheless, he still refrains from saturating the digital in economic discourse, similarly opening room for debate. 
[numerique.pdf](https://github.com/essemmeppi/diving-into-french-presidential-discourses/files/8441307/numerique.pdf)

### Hidden Ontologies
This is the decisively exploratory part of our analysis, where we use words which are very quotidian, yet due to their requirement to be contextualised, are telling of political inclinations.
#### 'monde'
Valérie Pécresse’s ‘monde’ addresses tokens that mix the past (‘allies', ‘gaullienne’) with strong institutions (’otan', ‘national’ ‘etats’ american’) and a classic sense of security (‘defense', ‘forte’). It evokes the idea of a world system premised on the functioning of decision making institutions. In referencing the lives of people, terms come to be less decisive (‘voix’) or indicative un unagentivenss and sombre (‘declassment’). Whilst potentially trying to craft a ‘realistic’ discourse, this stands in stark contrast to the upbeat and optimistic discourse of her contestants. Where Emmanuel Macron speaks about ‘excellence’ Jean-Luc Mélenchon references ‘magnifique’ and Yannick Jadot sees ‘futur’. Evidently other differences are visible between the latter three candidates: English words appear in Emmanuel Macron mixture of challenge (‘crise’ ‘alerte’) and appeal to togetherness (‘entier’). Jean-Luc Mélenchon drives classic associations between ‘espoir’ ’change’ and ’pouvons’ implying a shared buoyancy. Yannick Jadot discourse is less clear, partially addressing attributes of government (‘reform’ ‘gouvernants’).
[monde.pdf](https://github.com/essemmeppi/diving-into-french-presidential-discourses/files/8441319/monde.pdf)

#### 'societe'
Similarly to ‘monde’, ‘societe’ brings forwards a charateriations, woes and hopes for the French society candidates are speaking to. Éric Zemmour deploys a future-invested notion of society, pivoting on the foundational institution of education (‘education’, ‘humain’, ‘scolaire’, ‘ecole’, ‘mener’) as well as an antagonistic one (‘elite’, ‘scandale’, ‘fraude’, ‘terroriste’, ‘lutte’). Valérie Pécresse makes use of the same two narratives, however slightly altered. On the one hand she deploys ‘ambitieux’ and ‘competence’ and on the other ‘desordre’, ‘faillite’ and ‘musulmans’. In their own fashion both candidates appeal to hope in perseverance (either institutionally-historically founded or economic in nature) and outside threats. Yannick Jadot is extremely optimistic, conjugating ‘societe’ with a strong notion of justice (‘reparer’, ‘comprendre’, ‘reparation’). He hints at the redistributive aspect of ecology in general, that goes beyond environmental policies to foster fairness/cooperation. Anne Hidalgo doesn’t make a forceful discourse palpable however emphasises goodness’ (precieux, bienveillante, aines, inclusive), whilst employing vocabulary directed to an active vision of change (‘vision’, ‘decider’, ‘offrir’, ‘renforcement’)
[societe.pdf](https://github.com/essemmeppi/diving-into-french-presidential-discourses/files/8441325/societe.pdf)

### Extra
#### 'contre'
‘Contre’ was an equally exploratory category, as we noticed that scrutinising the words proximate to ‘contre’ allowed for issues of concern, as identified by candidates to be isolated, as well as the ‘fashion’ of being against as identified by verbs and adjectives. Valérie Pécresse demonstrated a decent frequency of words related to fighting (‘lutte’, ‘lutter’, ‘combat’) characteristic of a strong discourse of opposition. These are most likely deployed in interaction with ‘communautarisme’, ‘sexisme’, ‘illegale’. Interestingly there is a high frequency of words related to the female condition  (‘cheffe’, ‘filles’, ‘sexisme’, ‘agression’). As the incumbent president Emmanuel Macron, he clearly doesn’t stress on the innate shortcomings of society, however he identifies and opposes negative informational concepts to a rational structure that he would de facto embody (‘desinformation’, ‘propagande’). These are most likely tied to the current war in the Ukraine. The left (Jean-Luc Mélenchon and Yannick Jadot) evidently redirect attention against the incumbent and the status quo. Jean-Luc Mélenchon edges upon a vindictive stance against economic elites, allowing him to position himself as proximate to the electoral body (‘fraude’, ‘milliard’, ‘evasion’). Yannick Jadot similarly demonstrates a vocabulary of fighting, directing his stance of opposition towards a detrimental status quo. This encompasses several aspects of society: the economy (‘fraude’, ‘evasion’, ’surendettement’) and social jsutice (‘discrimination’ and ‘systematique’).
[contre.pdf](https://github.com/essemmeppi/diving-into-french-presidential-discourses/files/8441333/contre.pdf)

## Discussion and Limitations
### Discussion
Building off Mohr’s (2000) contributions we have been able to expand the analytic limitation of structuralist-interpretive anthropology by exploiting proximity in locally-trained word embedding models and relate these findings to a broader material and conceptual political reality, previously  elaborated upon by scholars. As such, we have sought to uncover which topics in the current debate of the French presidential election lack debate, despite existing differences. For now our results have consisted in relating the word embeddings of candidates to broader political ethical-logics and comparing them between each other. This discussion will aggregate these findings, inspecting the overarching similarities and differences within the French presidential debate writ large. 

The first cross-cutting finding relates to the style of statehood which is implied across the spectrum. Here, it is noticeable that the far right relies on historical legitimation for policy which seek to command over culture (e.g. school) as well as hard industry. The right to centre, makes a shift away from this approach to a very stately approach which is solidified in technocratic options of the state. The left contrastingly speaks about reforms, movements, thus premising a style of statehood which either includes people into the state or centres outside voices. This is an ethics which is equally viewed, exercised, and articulated  when addressing the classic concerns of the economy and the digital. Secondly, the object of proposed politics also changes across candidates. This is in line with their proposed structures of statehood. The right and right of centre concentrates heavily on industry and enterprise, whereas the left centres people in charge (negatively), tokens which impinge upon people’s day to day (‘besoins’, ‘salaries’, ‘syndicats’ ). Thus, the left centres the quotidian life of people as the genuine object of their politics: a further highly political choice, possibly telling what to see as an end or means to an end. 

Whilst this analysis remains pertinent, it is important to not to allow this to foreshadow and obscure the relevance of anomalies, which render political discourse unpredictable, forever changing and indeed potentially alive. This could be Valérie Pécresse’s drawing on gender-specific issues, not generally central for the right, or Anne Hidalgo’s excessive reliance on a discourse of  ‘goodness’, which seldom characterises politics in general. 

Nevertheless, we can conclude that the face-value of topics are used to speak to other politics, which are in and of themselves relevant, and which have the potential to activate an underlying logic of statehood and values as held by voters. Generally in political discourse, it is assumed that the state should function democratically, with a certain population as a benevolent recipient of policy in mind (difference regarding migrants and citizens aside). This analysis has shown that with regards to the French presidential debate, the way of relating to the objects of policy, as well as the objects of policy themselves, are diverse, yet highly politically charged. The reintegration into social science literature and theory had allowed us to use word-vectors of tokens as present in locally-trained embedding spaces to distil discourse to its bare bones, and subsequently lend it politically relevant meaning. 

### Limitations
Our research suffers from four main limitations. The first one is the requirement of a leap of faith to extract knowledge from the analysis of the most_similar tokens to a given shared word. It is important to be clear, this limitation is also a cornerstone of our research, the element that allows us to unveil hidden elements of political actor’s ideologies and worldviews. Still, including the inductive leap in our analysis implies relying, to a certain degree, on the researcher’s unstructured thoughts and, maybe, arbitrarity. This will be deemed a flaw that undermines the whole research by strictly quantitative social scientists. However, more qualitative minds, that accept a degree of subjectivity, can use this method to gather new, significant and sometimes surprising insights. Ultimately, the interpretations are endlessly nuanced and therefore also endless in possibilities. It is for the researcher to outline the direction of inquiry and for her peers to critique and expand.  

The second limitation relates precisely to this power of interpretation. Here, in conventional interpretive approaches findings are situated within a rich ethnography based on years of fieldwork. We have sought to approximate this richness in two ways. Firstly, we rely on encapsulating the contextual meaning of words in their embedded word vectors. Secondly, we reintegrate them into contemporary analyses of political and socio-economic structures, attempting to give this meaning grip and logic. Our analysis is therefore based on a reintegration into academic literature, demonstrating its potential for a methodology in tandem with others. Nevertheless, the lack of “thick description” (Geetz, 1973) renders our interpretation less forceful. In the same vein the reliance on existing literature allows us to ‘read’ candidates discourse through word vectors, however, it requires candidates to conform to a certain set of preteoriesed underlying ethical logics which define statehood. Should a candidate completely upturn this logic, however unlikely, this would not be palpable in our analysis.

The third limitation has to do with the technical details of our work. The seven word embedding models we trained result from a series of technical choices on the parameters of the algorithm. There is no a priori right way to set these parameters. In our case, we excluded from our corpus all the stopwords and the words shorter than three letters–we were worried about ‘ia’, the shorter version of intelligence artificielle, but checking manually, ‘ia’ did not appear enough times to be included. We were satisfied with the current parameter settings: min_count=10, vector_size=300, epochs=100 which means that we train the model considering only tokens that appear at least 10 times, that each token in our model is described by a vector of 300 elements, and that the output of our training is the result of 100 iterations (epochs) over the corpus. These parameters are perfectly in line with those of similar studies.

Lastly, our possibility to say something about political actors is limited by the nature of our training data. Twitter activity and manifestos do not constitute the totality of the communicative acts of politicians, nor do they encapsulate a broader political context. They come with specific features that reduce the possibility to extract knowledge from the analysis of word embeddings trained on those corpora. More specifically, tweets are the result of the activity of experts of communication that is tailored to the specific audience of Twitter. Further, the medium itself has elements that reduce the spectrum of possible communications, most prominently the limited amount of characters.

## Conclusion
This article has experimented and advanced  a novel method for making underlying political discourse both tangible and meaningful to a social scientist. It uses locally-trained word embeddings to scrutinise how key terms are differently mobilised to political ends. These key terms should be ubiquitous societal concepts. As we analyse the online twitter discourses of candidates for the French presidential election of 2022, we deploy terms such as ‘nation’, ‘economie’ and ‘numerique’. These demand, due to their pertinence, to be included in the discourse in question. By reading their contextual social meaning against further social science theory, we are able to elicit these issues' implications in broader meta-political debates of statehood and citizenship, which often go under-articulated and under-debated. The method retains the subjective shortcomings of qualitative research, mainly relying on the quantitative aspect to shed light on an otherwise conflated and persuasive discourse. Its value lies in eliciting the distilled forms of the discourse in question, which can be analysed from the bird’s eye view of the researcher. 

## References
Anderson, B. (1991). Imagined communities: Reflections on the Origin and Spread of Nationalism (Rev. and e). Verso.
Appel, H. (2017). Toward an ethnography of the national economy. Cultural Anthropology, 32(2), 294–322. https://doi.org/10.14506/ca32.2.09
Bear, L. (2014). Doubt, Conflict, Mediation: The Anthropology of Modern Time. Journal of the Royal Anthropological Institute, 20(S1), 3–30. https://doi.org/10.1111/1467-9655.12091
Bear, L. (2015). Navigating Austerity: Currents of Debt along a South Asian River. Stanford University Press.
Bonikowski, B., Bock, S., & Feinstein, Y. (2021). The Partisan Sorting of “America”: How Nationalist Cleavages Shaped the 2016 U.S. Presidential Election. American Journal of Sociology, 127(2), 492–561. https://doi.org/10.1086/717103
Bove, V., Böhmelt, T., & Nussio, E. (2021). Terrorism Abroad and Migration Policies at Home. Journal of European Public Policy, 28(2), 190–207. https://doi.org/10.1080/13501763.2020.1729227
Boyd, D., & Crawford, K. (2012). Six Provocations for Big Data. SSRN Electronic Journal, 1–17. https://doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1926431
Çalişkan, K., & Callon, M. (2009). Economization, Part 1: Shifting Attention from the Economy towards Processes of Economization. Economy and Society, 38(3), 369–398. https://doi.org/10.1080/03085140903020580
Dahl, R. A. (1957). The Concept of Power. Behavioural Science, 2(3), 201–215. https://doi.org/10.7312/popi17594-004
Dénigot, Q., & Burnett, H. (2021). Using Word Embeddings to Uncover DIscourses. Proceedings of the Society for Computation in Linguistics, 4(28), 298–312. https://scholarworks.umass.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1190&context=scil
Dennison, J., & Geddes, A. (2019). A rising tide? The salience of immigration and the rise of anti-immigration political parties in Western Europe. Political Quarterly, 90(1), 107–116. https://doi.org/10.1111/1467-923X.12620
Desai, J., Watson, D., Wang, V., Taddeo, M., & Floridi, L. (2022). The epistemological foundations of data science: a critical analysis. Social Science Research Network, 1–26.
Duncombe, C. (2019). The Politics of Twitter: Emotions and the Power of Social Media. International Political Sociology, 13(4), 409–429. https://doi.org/10.1093/ips/olz013
Evans, J. A., & Aceves, P. (2016). Machine Translation: Mining Text for Social Theory. Annual Review of Sociology, 42, 21–50. https://doi.org/10.1146/annurev-soc-081715-074206
Evans, J., & Ivaldi, G. (2017). The 2017 French Presidential Elections: A Political Reformation? https://books.google.com/books?hl=de&lr=&id=BThDDwAAQBAJ&oi=fnd&pg=PR9&ots=tilrF_K_o8&sig=ng9eayiP4NUmZ4TueEpeRGQ0yo0
Floridi, L. (2020). The Fight for Digital Sovereignty: What It Is, and Why It Matters, Especially for the EU. Philosophy and Technology, 33(3), 369–378. https://doi.org/10.1007/s13347-020-00423-6
Gattinara, P. C., & Morales, L. (2017). The politicization and securitization of migration in Western Europe: public opinion, political parties and the immigration issue. In Handbook on Migration and Security. Edward Elgar Publishing.
Geertz, C. (1966). Religion as a Cultural System. In M. Banton & C. and A. of S. A. of The (Eds.), Anthropological Approaches to the Study of Religion (pp. 1–46). Tavistock 
Geertz, C., & American Council of Learned Societies. (1973). The interpretation of cultures : Selected essays (Harper torchbooks; 5043). New York: Basic Books.
Gerring, J., & Yesnowitz, J. (2006). A Normative Turn in Political Science? Polity, 38(1), 101–133. https://doi.org/10.1057/palgrave.polity.2300054
Gougou, F., & Persico, S. (2017). A new party system in the making? the 2017 French presidential election. French Politics, 15(3), 303–321. https://doi.org/10.1057/s41253-017-0044-7
Graeber, D. (2006). Turning Modes of Production Inside Out. Critique of Anthropology, 26(1), 61–85. https://doi.org/10.1177/0308275x06061484
Graeber, D. (2013). It is value that brings universes into being. HAU: Journal of Ethnographic Theory, 3(2), 219–243. https://doi.org/10.14318/hau3.2.012
Hay, C. (2006). Political Ontology. In The Oxford Handbook of Contextual Political Analysis. https://doi.org/10.1093/oxfordhb/9780199270439.003.0004 
Heng, G., & Devan, J. (1997). State Fatherhood: The Politics of Nationalism, Sexuality, and Race in Singapore. In The Gender/Sexuality Reader (pp. 107–121). Routledge.
Honnibal, M., & Montani, I. (2017). spaCy 2: Natural language understanding with Bloom embeddings, convolutional neural networks and incremental parsing.
Irani, L. (2015). Hackathons and the Making of Entrepreneurial Citizenship. Science Technology and Human Values, 40(5), 799–824. https://doi.org/10.1177/0162243915578486
Jacobs, T., & Tschötschel, R. (2019). Topic models meet discourse analysis: a quantitative tool for a qualitative approach. International Journal of Social Research Methodology, 22(5), 469–485. https://doi.org/10.1080/13645579.2019.1576317
Jeffrey, C., & Dyson, J. (2020). Geographies of the Future: Prefigurative Politics. Progress in Human Geography, 1–18. https://doi.org/10.1177/0309132520926569
Jendrissek, D. (2013). EU Labour Migration in Troubled Times : Skills Mismatch , Return and Policy Responses. Journal of Contemporary European Studies, 21(2), 312–313. https://doi.org/10.1080/14782804.2013.817824
Khalife, S., Gonçalves, D., Allouah, Y., & Liberti, L. (2021). Further results on latent discourse models and word embeddings. Journal of Machine Learning, 1, 1–36.
König, P. D., & Waldvogel, T. (2021). Ni gauche ni droite? Positioning the candidates in the 2017 French presidential election. French Politics, 19(2–3), 281–303. https://doi.org/10.1057/s41253-018-0059-8
Kozlowski, A. C., Taddy, M., & Evans, J. A. (2019). The Geometry of Culture: Analyzing the Meanings of Class through Word Embeddings. American Sociological Review, 84(5), 905–949. https://doi.org/10.1177/0003122419877135
Lenci, A. (2018). Distributional models of word meaning. Annual Review of Linguistics, 4, 151–171. https://doi.org/10.1146/annurev-linguistics-030514-125254
Lowrie, I. (2017). Algorithmic rationality: Epistemology and efficiency in the data sciences. Big Data and Society, 4(1), 1–13. https://doi.org/10.1177/2053951717700925
Mavelli, L. (2013). Between Normalisation and Exception: The Securitisation of Islam and the Construction of the Secular Subject. Millennium: Journal of International Studies, 41(2), 159–181. https://doi.org/10.1177/0305829812463655
McCormick, T. H., Lee, H., Cesare, N., Shojaie, A., & Spiro, E. S. (2017). Using Twitter for Demographic and Social Science Research: Tools for Data Collection and Processing. Sociological Methods and Research, 46(3), 390–421. https://doi.org/10.1177/0049124115605339
Milbauer, J., Mathew, A., & Evans, J. (2021). Aligning Multidimensional Worldviews and Discovering Ideological Differences. Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing, 4832–4845. https://doi.org/10.18653/v1/2021.emnlp-main.396
Mitchell, T. (2007). Society, Economy, and the State Effect. In A. Sharma & A. Gupta (Eds.), The Anthropology of the State: A Reader (pp. 172–186). Blackwell Publishing Ltd.
Mohr, J. W. (1998). Measuring Meaning Structures. Annual Review of Sociology, 24, 345–370. https://doi.org/10.1146/annurev.soc.24.1.345
Mohr, J. W. (2000). Introduction: Structures, institutions, and cultural analysis. Poetics, 27(2–3), 57–68. https://doi.org/10.1016/S0304-422X(00)00002-4
Pietsch, W. (2013). Data and Control - a Digital Manifesto. Public Culture, 25(2), 307–310. https://doi.org/10.1215/08992363-2020611
Polanyi, K. (1944). The great transformation. Boston: Beacon.
Publications. https://doi.org/10.4324/9781315017570
Rehurek, R., & Sojka, P. (2011). Gensim–python framework for vector space modelling. NLP Centre, Faculty of Informatics, Masaryk University, Brno, Czech Republic, 3(2).
Rheault, L., & Cochrane, C. (2020). Word Embeddings for the Analysis of Ideological Placement in Parliamentary Corpora. Political Analysis, 28(1), 112–133. https://doi.org/10.1017/pan.2019.26
Smith, N. A. (2020). Contextual Word Representations: A Contextual Introduction. Communications of the AMC, 1–15. http://arxiv.org/abs/1902.06006
Solomon, R. C. (1978). Emotions and Anthropology : The Logic of Emotional World Views. Inquiry, 21(1–4), 181–199.
Sperber, D. (1982). Apparently Irrational Beliefs. In M. Hollis & S. Lukes (Eds.), Rationality and Relativism (pp. 149–180). Basil Blackwell.
Stoltz, D. S., & Taylor, M. A. (2021). Cultural cartography with word embeddings. Poetics, 88(May), 101567. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.poetic.2021.101567
Zuboff, S. (2019). The Age of Surveillance Capitalism. PublicAffairs.
